>> Maximiliano Firtman: So we will
continue creating another package that is
gonna be our models.
So I'm going to create another
package in the root there models.
What's a model?
We will create the structures for
every entity,
let's talk about entities for now,
that we will have in our project.
So what about entities?
So let me go back to a slide first,
I'm going to close it.
So the entities that we will
have are actually the movie
that's kind of the main entity.
So it represents one movie,
in the system, in the database.
Genre, and why is it a different entity?
Because one movie can have several genres,
so
it can be science fiction and
comedy, for example.
It's actually pretty simple.
It's just maybe ID and name, in the future
you may have other things, but just that.
Actor, actress, okay.
In this case, it has the name,
first name, last name, image and so on.
And user, we will use the user or
the account for
logging in, the user, for
authentication, okay?
So we need to create these models.
At least let's start with the first three
that they have to do with the movies,
okay?
So then, we will go and create the model.
So I'm going to create one file,
genre, oops, .go.
Of course it's giving me an error
because I don't have the package header,
that's why it's giving
you an error immediately.
Actor.go, and then we have movie.go.
And if we add the package models,
now it's not giving us Errors,
if we don't have any structure yet,
any type declaration,
but at least we don't get any errors.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Remember,
later we will map these models with
the data coming from the database,
thanks to a repository.
So let's start with the simplest one,
with genre.
So we create a type,
we use the name capital G.
Remember, if not, we won't be
able to use it from the outside.
And it's a structure, we have an ID,
we typically, it's a pattern.
Use the ID with capital I capital D,
so all caps for the ID.
It's kind of a go pattern and the name.
Remember capital, we use title case here,
so we can use it outside as well.
So that's genre, it's pretty simple.
Then you have actor.
So we create type, actor is another
structure in a3 in the documentation
the readme you have this in case
you want to copy and paste.
But also for our brain to
actually get the information and
store that information inside our memory
it's a good idea to type sometimes.
So we have an ID,
we have a first name as a string,
we have a last name as a string and
an image URL.
It's also a string, but
one of the problems is that
the image URL might not be there.
Remember, I mentioned that it's optional.
So maybe we don't have
the picture of every actor.
So that's why we are adding an asteric,
a pointer there.
That means it's nullable or
nullable in a Go language.
Okay, make sense?
And finally, the movie.
This is probably the most important one,
and the one that has more data.
We also have an ID integer.
There is a TMDB_ID that maybe I don't need
it, but this is because we have on our own
idea, remember I mentioned that I created
a subset of the full TMDB database.
The TMDB database has around,
if I remember correctly,
70,000 entries, which is a lot.
So I just picked 5,000 and
we can still have
the idea of the original TMDB
in case you need it later.
Why you may need that later?
Let's talk about this for a second.
Let's say you wanna publish this as
a real website for movies, okay?
So you wanna create the movie database.
The problem is that you got the database,
and this is static.
And of course,
we have new movies every week.
So, you need to update your database,
and TMDB has an API, so
you can query latest movies.
And how do you know if you
already have the movie or not?
Well, you use that ID.
Okay, you don't use the title because
maybe the title of the movie ID
can be duplicated, okay, so
don't use the title, just use that ID.
So we have the ID,
we have the title again, so
we have a tagline that's something
from marketing from the movie.
ReleaseYear, Genres,
and this is important,
this is a collection, not one.
Overview, it's a string, but some of these
properties might be optional,
so I will use a pointer.
We have a score.
Actually, you know that IMDB,
they have a score,
users are voting and sending a score,
so you have an average.
This is not coming from copyright issues,
so it's coming from other websites
like Rotten Tomatoes and others, so they
create an average of user rating, okay?
Okay, that's kind of a score.
Popularity is also coming from different
providers, it might not be there.
Then, we have keywords.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Keywords, this is
just a collection of array of strings.
Keywords, for example, if a movie is
space related, so space, time travel,
themes, animals, so things like that.
So we have an array of keywords.
A language, this is the original
language of the movie, so a string.
Can be optional in the data.
The poster URL, we have the trailer URL,
that's the video.
And finally, the cast, or the casting,
where we use actors, okay?
So that's how the movie structure
looks like, that's our model.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Is it
mandatory to create the model?
Not really.
You can just grab the data
from the database,
convert that into JSON and
send that to the client.
But the advantage of creating
a structure is to mimic the idea of OOP.
So we kind of created an object, and then
later we can add methods to that object.
So it's better to do this, also for
security purposes and also for
future proof, because what happens if
someone is changing the database schema?
I mean, we are changing the name
of the fields in the database.
Well, you're downloading
the field as it is.
You're conforming that into a JSON and
sending that to the client, and
the client will give you an error.
Well, for error management here,
we will know if the structure
is matching or not our model.
So that's why it's important
to have a model here.
It feels like a lot of work or
more work, but
the advantage is that we will
get a better future for us.
Okay, when we have our models.
Any question so far on models?
>> Speaker 2: The data type makes
it an optional field, right?
The star.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: The star means
pointer.
It's a pointer to a string, it's a pointer
to a float, it's a pointer to whatever.
And it means a pointer, from this point
of view, it means that it may be nil.
So when we create an actor,
so let's create here,
like a quick actor,
like a temporary actor.
We create an actor, and that actor
may have different properties and
different, even I can
pass the values here.
So when I'm creating actually,
this is a I'm in a movie.
So let's create a movie, actually,
when you're creating the movie.
Now, for example, the title is mandatory.
You must have a title because it says
it's a string, it cannot be nil.
For some optional when
you have optional values,
like they can store new in a database
from the database here, it goes to nil.
And to do that, we use the asterisk,
but having mine,
the asterisk by itself doesn't mean it's
an optional value, like a new level value.
It's a pointer with a lot of things
that have to do with pointer,
pointer management.
If you wanna get deeper into that,
check my other course basics
of Go at Front End Masters,
where we actually get
into the pointer idea.
Because by default, when you pass
in values actually as an argument,
it's always passing as a value, so
as a copy, unless it's a pointer.
So it has to do with that.
But for our use case.
We can say that the asterisk is for
optional attributes, okay,
so that means that we can set
nil on those attributes as well.
Okay, make sense?
>> Speaker 3: Otherwise, if you don't
put it, it just if it's a string,
it's just an empty string, right?
So it will be there, but
it will just be there.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: There is
a difference from a database point of
view between empty string and
null, and the same happens here.
The problem is that if in the database
you have null store as a value for
one field, when you're trying to
fill your model, it will fail.
Because there is no way to store that null
unless you have an if you have a condition
saying, if it's null in the database,
I will save empty string here.
Okay, but yeah,
it's kind of a hack that you're doing.
To actually automatically
map your data with the data
that is coming from the database
you have to add the pointer.
So then, if it's null in the database,
it will be nil automatically here.
But remember that empty strings
are not the same as nulls.
Also, when you have here,
float for the score popularity,
it's even more complicated
because if it's not no level,
what do you store for Node Zero?
But maybe zero is a pretty,
pretty bad movie, so
zero may be an actual value, value.
So then you need to start hacking this,
and say, minus one, but it's really hack.
So it's much better to let the system
store the new ability of that body.
>> Speaker 3: Got it, makes sense.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay, makes sense?